Compensation poll seems likely to pass so prep next poll (#496)
makerdao/community: governance/polls/Vault Compensation Denomination - April 13, 2020.md

---
title: Vault Compensation Denomination Poll - April 13, 2020
summary: Signal whether to provide compensation to vault holders in the vault's token (ETH/BAT) or in DAI
discussion_link: https://forum.makerdao.com/t/1822
poll_rules: The voter may select to vote for one of the poll options or they may elect to abstain from the poll entirely
options:

>    0: Abstain

Reviewer: what is the point of the abstain option? What happens if that option wins?

Reviewer 2: A vote for the `abstain` option is considered the same as not voting, so it can't ever really "win." If it weren't there, there'd be no way to `unvote`.

Reviewer: hmm, alright good enough for me

   1: the asset that was liquidated (ETH or BAT)
   2: DAI

---
# Vault Compensation Denomination Poll - April 13, 2020

The Maker Foundation Interim Governance Facilitator has placed a Governance Poll into the [voting system](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling) on behalf of the community which the community can use to signal whether to move ahead with a plan to provide compensation to vault holders.

This Governance Poll ([FAQ](https://community-development.makerdao.com/makerdao-scd-faqs/scd-faqs/governance)) will be active for 7 days beginning on Monday, April 13 at 4 PM UTC.

## Review

[An initial poll on whether to compensate vault holders has passed.](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling-proposal/qmwfvvguaf8rz8xwgv2cqnzzt9t5h6epzh17qmk2ue99y4)

> When vaults are liquidated, assets are sold for DAI to repay the debt. Any remaining assets are returned to the vault. In brief, in ordinary circumstances, vault holders would receive the type of asset that was originally held in the vault. However, for Maker to provide compensation in the original token, Maker would have to accept the liability of the token appreciating vs DAI prior to when the compensation can be paid out. Do we accept this liability or will we provide compensation in DAI (the DAI value of the residual collateral at the time of liquidation)?

Reviewer 3: > Maker would have to accept the liability of the token appreciating vs DAI prior to when the compensation can be paid out

Not sure if I get it right. What's the point of this? Wouldn't compensation in DAI involve token appreciation vs DAI as well?

Author: I added an example. Please verify that the math in my example is correct.

Reviewer 3: > If this poll decides tha the compensation

Typo here.
Also 117 should be 118 = (10 ETH x 90 DAI/ETH) - 782 DAI (an explanation where it come from would be helpful).

And anyway both DAI repayment and ETH repayment options don't rely on current DAI/ETH price and in both cases Maker should decide on crash day DAI/ETH price. So what's the point of the liability clause?

Author: ETH repayment options does rely on current DAI/ETH price! This ETH would have to be purchased at the current market rate.

Author: I updated the example with more clarification. Take a look

Reviewer 3: Ah you're right. Back to original question: what means *liability of the token appreciating*? Isn't it the same as deciding on price of the asset/DAI?

Author: If ETH's DAI price goes to moon in the next few weeks, say 1000 DAI/ETH, then that would increase Maker's liability if this poll decides to compensate in ETH units.

---
title: Vault Compensation Denomination Poll - April 13, 2020

> summary: Signal whether to provide compensation to vault holders in the vault's token (ETH/BAT) or in DAI

Reviewer 4: Would much rather we entirely avoid the question at this stage. The summary should be phrased as neutrally as possible which I think this is.

discussion_link: https://forum.makerdao.com/t/1822
poll_rules: The voter may select to vote for one of the poll options or they may elect to abstain from the poll entirely
options:
   0: Abstain

>    1: the asset that was liquidated (ETH or BAT)

Reviewer 5: small suggestion, but could we change to the following? I reads a bit simpler I think.
```suggestion
   1: ETH or BAT (the asset that was liquidated) 
```

This Governance Poll ([FAQ](https://community-development.makerdao.com/makerdao-scd-faqs/scd-faqs/governance)) will be active for 7 days beginning on Monday, April 13 at 4 PM UTC.

## Review

[An initial poll on whether to compensate vault holders has passed.](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling-proposal/qmwfvvguaf8rz8xwgv2cqnzzt9t5h6epzh17qmk2ue99y4)

When vaults are liquidated, assets are sold for DAI to repay the debt. Any remaining assets are returned to the vault. In brief, in ordinary circumstances, vault holders would receive the type of asset that was originally held in the vault. However, for Maker to provide compensation in the original token, Maker would have to accept the liability of the token appreciating vs DAI prior to when the compensation can be paid out. Do we accept this liability or will we provide compensation in DAI (the DAI value of the residual collateral at the time of liquidation)?

> For example, suppose an ETH vault was liquidated when ETH was trading at 90 DAI/ETH. Liquidation is triggered when the collateral ratio falls below 150%. Due to volatile markets, the collateral ratio fell to 130%. Suppose 10 ETH was locked in the vault (with a debt of 692 DAI). After the 13% liquidation penalty, the vault owes 782 DAI. All of the ETH is auctioned off at 0 DAI/ETH. The debt of 692 DAI was repaid by flop auctions. If this poll decides that the compensation shall be in ETH then this vault holder could expect a remaining balance of at most 1.3 ETH (10 ETH x 90 DAI/ETH - 782 = 118 DAI divided by 90 DAI/ETH). To provide compensation, Maker would have to purchase this ETH at the current market rate. If this poll decides tha the compensation shall be in DAI then this vault holder could expect a remaining balance of at most 118 DAI (regardless of the today's DAI/ETH rate).

Reviewer 6: This paragraph is quite long and a bit difficult to parse. I've broken it up and rephrased a few things to make it a bit clearer (at least to me).

```suggestion
For example, suppose there was a vault with 10 ETH of collateral and 692 DAI of debt. The vault came under liquidation when the collaterallization ratio fell to 130% (instead of the requisite 150%) at the price of 90 DAI/ETH.

After the 13% liquidation penalty, the vault owes 782 DAI (692 DAI + 13% of 692 DAI). All of the ETH collateral was auctioned off at 0 DAI/ETH while the debt of 692 DAI was repaid by flop auctions.

At the time of liquidation, 10 ETH sold at 90 DAI/ETH would have yielded 900 DAI. When we subtract the 782 DAI owed, we get **a remainder of 118 DAI or 1.3 ETH** (at the rate of 90 DAI/ETH at the time).

There are now two possible scenarios:

1. **If this poll decides that the compensation shall be in ETH**
   - This vault holder could expect a remaining balance of at most 1.3 ETH
   - To provide compensation, Maker would have to purchase this ETH at the current market rate
  
2. **If this poll decides that the compensation shall be in DAI**
   - This vault holder could expect a remaining balance of at most 118 DAI
   - Regardless of the today's DAI/ETH rate
```

Reviewer 6: The suggestion also clearly lays out the result of what would happen if the poll went one way or the other. Making it easy for people to understand the poll even if they were just skimming it quickly.

Author: Beautifully done

---
title: Vault Compensation Denomination Poll - April 13, 2020
summary: Signal whether to provide compensation to vault holders in the vault's token (ETH/BAT) or in DAI

> discussion_link: https://forum.makerdao.com/t/1822

Reviewer 5: Can we add the discussion link below:
https://forum.makerdao.com/t/compensating-vault-holders-that-liquidated-at-0-bid/1541/85

Author: This link is already in `More background discussion`. Or do you want to change the main discussion link in the poll header?

poll_rules: The voter may select to vote for one of the poll options or they may elect to abstain from the poll entirely
options:
   0: Abstain
   1: ETH or BAT (the asset that was liquidated) 
   2: DAI

---
# Vault Compensation Denomination Poll - April 13, 2020

> The Maker Foundation Interim Governance Facilitator has placed a Governance Poll into the [voting system](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling) on behalf of the community which the community can use to signal whether to move ahead with a plan to provide compensation to vault holders.

Reviewer 5: The decision whether to move ahead with compensation would already have been made?
```suggestion
The Maker Foundation Interim Governance Facilitator has placed a Governance Poll into the [voting system](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling) on behalf of the community which the community can use to signal whether to provide compensation to vault holders in the vault's token (ETH/BAT) or in DAI
```

This Governance Poll ([FAQ](https://community-development.makerdao.com/makerdao-scd-faqs/scd-faqs/governance)) will be active for 7 days beginning on Monday, April 13 at 4 PM UTC.

## Review

[An initial poll on whether to compensate vault holders has passed.](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling-proposal/qmwfvvguaf8rz8xwgv2cqnzzt9t5h6epzh17qmk2ue99y4)

> 

Reviewer 5: Many voters may only want the tl/dr and would be well served to be presented with the main arguments up front? 
This could also provide a disambiguation for the substance/consequences/nuances of the two options which may be more subtle as mentioned in the comments for the summary in line 3.
More detail/technical explanations can follow.
```suggestion

This poll follows from the initial poll to offer the choice in the nature of said compensation namely (ETH/BAT) or DAI.
An overview of the main arguments for and against:
Arguments for compensation in ETH:
Arguments against compensation in ETH:
Arguments for compensation in DAI:
Arguments against compensation in DAI:
```

Author: Dunno, I think the poll is already simple enough. You might try to make a complete summary and then see whether the summary is actually shorter than the poll or just increases the length.

Reviewer 5: It could be an addition so long as we don't duplicate. The problem with not presenting a summary like this is that the question at hand could become distorted. Line 22, for example asks "do we accept this liability". A voter may think “no I don’t want to take on additional liability” and vote for compensation in DAI, but the question framed that way may miss some context and probable consequences. The same voter could feel it was money wasted should DAI compensation be made and Maker still “receive bad press and acrimonious gestures” and “users not be happy”. The benefits of compensation (the agreed outcome) would not have been achieved even though cost was incurred. 
A pro/con presentation should avoid this as all main arguments would be stated in one place. I'll take a try populating the arguments if that will help - just didn't want to add it to one pull suggestion

Reviewer 5: Also realise now we could just have "arguments for" for either and make them positive/negative statements if need be. Should be simpler

Reviewer 5: Edits to for/against arguments are needed, but I think this gets to the heart of it?

```suggestion

This poll follows from the previous and offers the choice in the nature of said compensation namely (ETH/BAT) or DAI.
Main arguments for compensation in ETH: 
- ETH compensation pegs compensation to the asset that vault owners would have had the protocol not performed in a sub-optimal manner. Therefore it avoids the risk that compensation occurs, but users feel cheated and the objectives of compensation (happy users, no distortion of symmetry, positive impact on reputation and future mass adoption) still not be achieved.
Main arguments for compensation in DAI: 
- Compensation in DAI would be a lower compensation value since the value of ETH in DAI terms has appreciated after the liquidation event.

```

Author: I like where you're going with this, but give me a sec to tweak the language.

For example, suppose there was a vault with 10 ETH of collateral and 692 DAI of debt. The vault came under liquidation when the collaterallization ratio fell to 130% (instead of the requisite 150%) at the price of 90 DAI/ETH.

After the 13% liquidation penalty, the vault owes 782 DAI (692 DAI + 13% of 692 DAI). All of the ETH collateral was auctioned off at 0 DAI/ETH while the debt of 692 DAI was repaid by flop auctions.

At the time of liquidation, 10 ETH sold at 90 DAI/ETH would have yielded 900 DAI. When we subtract the 782 DAI owed, we get **a remainder of 118 DAI or 1.3 ETH** (at the rate of 90 DAI/ETH at the time).

There are now two possible scenarios:

1. **If this poll decides that the compensation shall be in ETH**

>    - This vault holder could expect a remaining balance of at most 1.3 ETH

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
   - This vault holder could expect a compensation of at most 1.3 ETH
```

   - To provide compensation, Maker would have to purchase this ETH at the current market rate
  
2. **If this poll decides that the compensation shall be in DAI**

>    - This vault holder could expect a remaining balance of at most 118 DAI

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
   - This vault holder could expect a compensation of at most 118 DAI
```

This Governance Poll ([FAQ](https://community-development.makerdao.com/makerdao-scd-faqs/scd-faqs/governance)) will be active for 7 days beginning on Monday, April 13 at 4 PM UTC.

## Review

[An initial poll on whether to compensate vault holders has passed.](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling-proposal/qmwfvvguaf8rz8xwgv2cqnzzt9t5h6epzh17qmk2ue99y4)

This poll poses the choice of which token will be used to compensate, namely ETH/BAT or DAI. When vaults are liquidated, assets are sold for DAI to repay the debt. Any remaining assets are returned to the vault. In brief, in ordinary circumstances, vault holders would receive the type of asset that was originally held in the vault.

Arguments for compensation in ETH/BAT:
- Least surprising to vault owners
- Avoids the risk that vault owners feel cheated, compromising the objectives of compensation: happy users, no distortion of symmetry, positive impact on reputation, and future mass adoption.

> Arguments for compensation in DAI:

Reviewer 3: Please insert a newline before this one.

Author: Go ahead and do it yourself

> Arguments for compensation in DAI:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Arguments for compensation in DAI:
```

- Compensation in DAI avoids DAI/ETH and DAI/BAT volatility risk. The amount of compensation can be fixed to a number in DAI without worrying about the DAI value of ETH and BAT.

To further clarify, we present an example. Suppose there was a vault with 10 ETH of collateral and 692 DAI of debt. The vault came under liquidation when the collaterallization ratio fell to 130% (instead of the requisite 150%) at the price of 90 DAI/ETH.

After the 13% liquidation penalty, the vault owes 782 DAI (692 DAI + 13% of 692 DAI). All of the ETH collateral was auctioned off at 0 DAI/ETH while the debt of 692 DAI was repaid by flop auctions.

At the time of liquidation, 10 ETH sold at 90 DAI/ETH would have yielded 900 DAI. When we subtract the 782 DAI owed, we get **a remainder of 118 DAI or 1.3 ETH** (at the rate of 90 DAI/ETH at the time).

There are two possible scenarios:

1. **If this poll decides that the compensation shall be in ETH**
   - This vault holder could expect a compensation scaled by 1.3 ETH
   - To provide compensation, Maker would have to purchase this ETH at the current market rate
  
2. **If this poll decides that the compensation shall be in DAI**

>    - This vault holder could expect a compensation scaled by 118 DAI

Reviewer 3: If we speak of lost collateral compensation with DAI why do we use this value (118)? We should say *1.3 ETH in DAI equivalent* instead.

Author: I disagree. "1.3 ETH in DAI equivalent" is a number that is constantly changing. The point of compensating in DAI is to fix the DAI/ETH exchange rate at some level.

This Governance Poll ([FAQ](https://community-development.makerdao.com/makerdao-scd-faqs/scd-faqs/governance)) will be active for 7 days beginning on Monday, April 13 at 4 PM UTC.

## Review

[An initial poll on whether to compensate vault holders has passed.](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling-proposal/qmwfvvguaf8rz8xwgv2cqnzzt9t5h6epzh17qmk2ue99y4)

This poll poses the choice of which token will be used to compensate, namely ETH/BAT or DAI. When vaults are liquidated, assets are sold for DAI to repay the debt. Any remaining assets are returned to the vault. In brief, in ordinary circumstances, vault holders would receive the type of asset that was originally held in the vault.

Arguments for compensation in ETH/BAT:
- Least surprising to vault owners
- Avoids the risk that vault owners feel cheated, compromising the objectives of compensation: happy users, no distortion of symmetry, positive impact on reputation, and future mass adoption.

Arguments for compensation in DAI:

> - Most likely, both BAT and ETH will have appreciated since the liquidation event. Therefore, a nominal 100% payout will almost certainly result in less value than would be obtained by payment in ETH/BAT. However, the payout amount could be adjusted to approximate the amount of appreciation in the planned subsequent poll.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Most likely, the price of both BAT and ETH will change since the liquidation event. Therefore, a nominal 100% payout will almost certainly result in a different value than would be obtained by payment in ETH/BAT. However, the payout amount could be adjusted to approximate the amount of appreciation in the planned subsequent poll.
```

There are two possible scenarios:

1. **If this poll decides that the compensation shall be in ETH**

>    - This vault holder could expect a compensation scaled by 1.3 ETH

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by *"scaled"*? I think I understand what it means for DAI but uncertain about ETH.

Also:
> will have appreciated since

Do you mean "will raise in value"?
> could be adjusted to approximate the amount of appreciation

Do you mean "can be adjusted to reflect current value"?
I suggest to use more simple wording.

Author: > What do you mean by "scaled"?

_Scaled_ means to multiply by some number.

Regarding your other comments, sure, go ahead and change it as you suggest.

Reviewer 3: I meant do you want to say something like this or I miss the idea?
> a compensation scaled by 1.3 ETH

"a compensation of 1.3 ETH with an additional haircut %"

Author: It is called a _haircut_ if we multiply by a number <1. I guess the term _scaling_ does not imply whether the number is <1 or >1.

Reviewer 3: Exactly. And I wonder if there's a case when we have to scale ETH compensation up? I there's no one the term "scale" is probably a bad choice.

Author: If the estimated compensation comes in very low then maybe we'll want to scale ETH compensation up? I don't want to preclude things that could happen in theory.

Reviewer 6: I think this is not worded very well, I was puzzled when I read this and I've read over this document many times over the last few days.

My suggestion to make it more clear:

```suggestion
   - This vault holder could expect a compensation of 1.3 ETH (or a scaled multiple of it, e.g. 1.1x)
```
